1.Various sources of big data are:
ANSWER:  1.Archives-are like scanned documents which holds the customer records given to the organizations.and there will be a huge data 
         related to the customers will be stored there in archives.

          2.Documents-PDF,word,email etc.. where all the details will be in readable format. and the necessary information can be
          retrived ta any time.

          3.Media-photos,videosand live streams were the customer loads those in various places.

          4.data Storage-SQL,hadoop where teh whole data will be stoed in structured or unstructered format from where a particular 
          detail can be retrived.

          5.Business Apps-HR,talent managemant,storage,expense management where one could store information about all his business 
          needs his business details


          6.Public web-weather report,traffic management,wikipedia,world bank,health and care etc.. in which various pulic and general
          information rather tahn personnel information will be stored.

        7.Social Media-facebook,Twitter,Linkedln and also all other networking sites were the user uploads their interest and find 
        other people interests.

        8.Machine Log Data-shows the details of call log,audit calls,mobile locations where recording is possible as well mobile app 
        usage this all were used to track the customer details.

        9.Sensor Data-includes satellite details,car sensors,traffic recording devices,video games,process boxes which are
        all devices of control where one could control those devices or can retrive data from the devices.
        
2.3 V's of Big Data 

ANSWER: 
I.)VOLUME: Each day due to advancement in technology the volume of data's uploaded in social websites like images,videaos and music 
is getting increased.and the data stored will be in terabytes and perabytes.as the there is increase in amount of data the architecture 
which supports the data should also be reevaluated quiet often as well sometimes multiple number of times. 
        
II.)VELOCITY: which represents the speed of data in this social world all teh details were and news update swere debated in social
 websites which needs a very fast data movement so the last hour data becomes older for each an hour due to update in the technology.
the data movement should be very faster as well the update window should be reduced from fractions to seconds.
        
 III.)VARIETY:The data will be stored in different format like PDF,vedio,images,word etc...so there must be an organization to make it meaningful
 so it is the cahlenge in big data to arrange those huge piles of data in a meaningful manner.
 
 
 
 3.Need and Working of Hadoop
 ANSWER:
 
 Hadoop is a open source platform which was designed to be robust even when any nodes fail the data will run continously without any interrupt
 and it has a major advantage that one can able to swap the entire data available to any of the software tools.unlike SQL there will not be
 any queries.
 
 it is mainly to solve probles where there will be a huge pile of data's.it is not a database but can pick a particular data from a pile of data's.
 In a centralized database system, you’ve got one big disk connected to four or eight or 16 big processors. But that is as much 
 horsepower as you can bring to bear. In a Hadoop cluster, every one of those servers has two or four or eight CPUs. You can run your
 indexing job by sending your code to each of the dozens of servers in your cluster, and each server operates on its own little piece of
 the data. Results are then delivered back to you in a unified whole. That’s MapReduce: you map the operation out to all of those servers and then you reduce the results back into a single result set
